[THEME MUSIC]
>>LISA GARR: Did you know
love is actually a choice you
can make over and over again?
It's not something that you get.
It's something that you choose.
These are the words of my guest
today, Dr. Barbara DeAngelis,
author of over 16
bestselling books that have
sold over 10 million copies.
Barbara's latest book,
"The Choice for Love,"
is written for today's
unsettling times,
where we're each called
to become a living remedy,
as Barbara says, not to fall
in love but to rise in love.
Welcome.
Thank you so much
for being here.
>>DE ANGELIS: Thank you.
I'm so happy to
have the opportunity
to rise in love with you.
>>LISA: I love that.
I love that phrase,
"to rise in love."
It really calls
to today's times.
It's not just about loving.
It's an action of love.
>>DE ANGELIS: You know,
I've written a lot of books,
but a few years
ago, I was called
to rise in understanding why
right now, more than ever,
understanding our
relationship to love,
not who's in our life,
not who's loving us,
but our relationship to
love itself as an energy,
as the source energy
is so crucial.
The ways we're
blocking it, the ways
we allow it to flow and to
understand that we are always
making a difference
vibrationally in how
we are contributing
to the world,
or how we're putting
out things that are not
positive to the world because of
our own relationship with love,
which is not in action.
It's not even about
a relationship.
It's that primal source energy.
It's this light-drenched
field of vibration
that so many mystics
talk about as the source.
And it's actually the most
important relationship we have.
The relationship
with that energy,
how we use it, how we choose
it, and the whole premise of it
is that we don't have to
wait for love to choose us.
We don't have to wait till
something does something
to make us feel love.
We are always, actually,
in love, even if we're not
feeling it in that state.
And knowing how to choose it,
our life can completely change,
and that's what's so
exciting about it.
>>LISA: It's different.
I love you're reframing
love because it needs to be.
You know, the old phrase
in the spiritual community,
"you can't love anyone else
unless you love yourself
first."
And there's something
to be said for that,
but I think that we've
got to turn that up.
>>DE ANGELIS: That's
a superficial way of--
it's the beginning
of an understanding,
but it's not actually accurate.
You can't experience the
love other people give you
if you're not already
experiencing your own love.
So it's not about
loving yourself
because people think of that
and they say, you're right.
I should get more pedicures.
I should get a massage.
I need to do affirmations.
I love myself.
But love is a
vibrational reality.
And if you can imagine it
as this ocean inside of us,
and if we have blocked
our connection to it,
if we're not allowing it to
flow out, if we have conditions,
old baggage, et cetera, that
are not allowing us to feel it,
if we're frozen in that ocean
of love and so we can't feel it.
It's not moving.
You can tell yourself all you
want I should love myself more,
but when you tap into
that, that love rises up.
And you know, one
of the great things,
and I think you'll like
this, that I always
tell people is when
you say, I'm in love.
And you meet somebody and
you say, oh, my god, I
fell in love.
What actually happened?
Did the person pour
gallons of love into you?
Did they give you like a shot?
Where did that love come from?
>>LISA: The exchange, right?
>>DE ANGELIS: No.
It comes from within you.
It rose up.
Because of things that
person said or did,
you gave yourself
permission to feel it.
It's your own love.
We're always only
feeling our own love.
It's no one else's.
And then all of a
sudden, you find out
something horrible
about that person.
That's it.
You're done.
And the next day, you say,
I don't feel any love.
Did that person
take away the love?
Did they come at night
and siphon it off
because you broke up?
It's still there.
We choose to feel it.
We choose not to feel it.
We choose to feel it or
not with our own partner.
One day, somebody we
love does something
we don't like, suddenly,
we feel shut off.
Nothing changed.
We've made choices.
So the whole premise
of the choice for love
is that every day, we
are making thousands
of choices about ourself,
about other people.
And to choose to connect
with that, to find it,
to clear out the pathway
so you can find it,
to bring it forth in
your life can completely
change how you live.
And it is what the world needs.
It is the way we can
change the world,
and it's what we can do now.
We don't have to wait for
even to have a partner,
to have things go right,
to do things that we're
happy with about ourself.
Otherwise, every day, we're
going up, down, up, down
in how we feel.
That love is always
available, and when
we learn how to tap into
it, everything changes.
>>LISA: So it's that ocean.
I love that idea of
that ocean of self-love.
It ebbs and flows, but it's
not dependent on another person
loving us.
>>DE ANGELIS: You
know, the way you
can think about it
is if we imagine--
and this is, again, what
all real wisdom talks about
is that we are love.
Love is God, et cetera.
If we have that source,
and you know this
just from seeing a baby,
when a baby's born,
they know they are pure love.
They are drenched in love.
There's no such thing as, for
instance, a baby who says,
I'm not into intimacy
or I need my space.
I don't like physical affection.
And when we get older, people
say that's just the way I am.
It's not.
It's not the way we were.
But that love light
is in a child's eyes,
and that is who we are.
And then stuff covers it
up, which we can talk about,
et cetera.
But imagine if there's this
ocean inside of us of love
as the prime source energy.
Somebody comes along and
they're like the wind.
They make a wave, and
our love rises up.
Our own love rises up and waves.
Something else happens, no wind.
Our love calms down.
But it's always your own love.
So the question is, how much are
you allowing that wind to flow?
And of course, if the
wind comes and there's
a frozen ocean or frozen
lake, there's no waves.
There's nothing.
And so you think how come,
I used to be so loving,
and now I don't feel much?
I'm numb.
I'm shut off.
The love is still there.
It's just frozen.
It needs to be defrosted.
>>LISA: And what if
you're in a relationship,
and the person says, I
don't love you anymore.
How do you respond to
that because it hurts?
>>DE ANGELIS: Of course it
hurts, but being in pain,
having regret,
being angry, feeling
disappointed have nothing
to do with feeling love.
So many times in our
life, and all of us
have gone through this
from the time we first
get hurt as a child.
Something happens,
someone disappoints us,
someone hurts us
or doesn't love us
the way we think they should,
and we end up, in a sense,
freezing a piece of
our heart, freezing
a piece of our emotions.
So it's like a block of ice.
Something else happens, and
there's another block of ice.
Bit by bit, block
by block, we end up
with frozen ice walls
around our heart.
Our love can't get out,
other people's can't get in.
But it's there just like
water doesn't disappear.
H2O doesn't disappear when
it's in the form of ice.
It's the same substance,
but it needs to melt.
Love can take the form
of resistance, of anger,
of being shut off, et cetera.
So choosing to love, meaning
to feel the love, even
when we're hurt, even
when we're disappointed,
is one of the great
spiritual choices.
It doesn't mean you choose
to let somebody hurt
you or you even
stay with someone,
but to sacrifice
our own lovingness,
and a lot of people
watching have done that.
They can go, you know what?
Ever since this happened,
I've been afraid to love again
et cetera, et cetera.
But that love is
what nourishes us.
Love in the form
of our heart energy
is the form of relationship.
In the form of energy up
here, it's creativity.
That source makes us juicy.
It makes us flow in life.
And so many people
need to go through what
I call the big melt
because they've
gotten crusty and
frozen over the years.
>>LISA: Well, there's a lot
also that it seems like we're
constantly defending love.
There's a lot of outside
influences and disturbances
and disruption.
For example,
forgiveness-- somebody
has done something
horrible or there's
injustices in the
world, and that love
does get chipped away at.
>>DE ANGELIS: But the love
doesn't get chipped away at,
our access to it does.
That's the whole point.
I've worked with, as you know,
just hundreds of thousands
of people over the years.
And I'll have somebody come
in to a workshop or a seminar,
and they're shut off.
They're angry.
They're bitter, et cetera.
And in 10 minutes,
in a half hour,
just having them do certain
things, they're crying.
They're opening up.
They're melting.
They say, I thought I was dead.
The love isn't chipped away at.
We have put a "do not
disturb sign" on our heart.
We're not accessing it.
But when we're
cutting off from that,
we're cutting off from
the same things we want--
power, energy, charisma,
radiance, et cetera.
It is this amazing elixir.
So the choice for love is
really about knowing that we
are always making choices.
And most people every
day are doing the--
they're making
choices for not love.
They're making the
choice for judgment.
They're making a
choice for anger.
choice for retaliation.
They're making a
choice for punishment.
They're making a choice
for divisiveness,
which we can see in
the world and where
that's taking everything.
And it doesn't mean that
you go and embrace somebody
who's trying to hurt you.
But when you realize
that we are making
personal choices every day about
ourselves and about others that
are either connecting us,
connecting our circuitry
so that all our circuits
are on, or we're pulling out
our circuitry so
that we're operating
with a very small
amount of life force,
and then that
creates other issues.
What do we have to do
to fill ourself up,
et cetera, et cetera.
>>LISA: It's interesting because
those choices of judgment
and hate and those
choices are less
vulnerable than being in that
vulnerable state of love.
Love, it is a vulnerable state.
Hate is one way, and it is a
closed off, disconnected state.
>>DE ANGELIS: Something
I write about and teach
a lot about that I think
a lot about these days
is what I call the
shift from me to we.
If you look at everything going
on in the world that is evil,
it comes from me and
then there's an other.
You are an other.
You look different.
You love differently.
Your skin is different.
You worship differently.
You are not me, therefore,
I can cause you harm.
Therefore, I don't care
what happens to you.
We consciousness,
which is, again,
what great mystics talk
about, we conscious
is why great yogis came
down from the mountains
and said it's not enough
that I'm enlightened.
I want everyone to
get enlightened.
We consciousness is
when you experience
or anyone experiences
something wonderful,
a great new restaurant, and
you want to call your friend.
You don't just go, I'm so
happy that I liked that.
You want to share it.
We consciousness
is what family is.
We conscious is what a
relationship should be.
And we consciousness is
what conscious society is.
It's OK that I'm not suffering.
They're suffering,
so it doesn't matter.
It's not OK.
That's, in the living
form, what compassion is.
So the shift from me
to we is the shift
that I invite everyone
to really think about.
And when we do that, if
somebody's part of you,
you cannot harm them.
So the more we grow in that,
the more we come from love,
the more we choose
love, it really
will shift how we
experience the world.
And we can each
make a difference,
even though we can't
change everything.
But we can make that shift,
and it will absolutely
uplift our environment.
>>LISA: Well, something
you've written about
is that cosmic grief.
When there's so many things that
are happening to the world, not
just interpersonally,
but to the world,
we get into that
place of apathy.
I can't fix this.
There's no way.
And then my heart bleeds
for the people that
are starving, for the
environment that's
being thrashed, and
it does send you
into a place of hopelessness,
and there is no love there.
>>DE ANGELIS: It should send
us into a place of compassion
and love.
Anyone who's conscious,
anyone who's watching this,
which is the great light
workers of the world,
we cannot afford to
shut off and cut off.
A few years ago, when I was
teaching a seminar and somebody
said I'm a very
spiritual person.
I'm a very intuitive person.
I can't handle what's happening
in the world, and I decided--
and it was right after a recent
election, she said, I just,
I'm staying out of it.
And I said there is no out.
There is no out.
We're all in.
If you understand anything
about spirituality
and the interconnectedness
of life, where is the out?
We are all in.
We're vibrationally connected.
We're connected by our breath.
We're connected
electromagnetically.
All the time, we're
each affecting people.
Every thought we have,
moving through life,
everything that's happening.
Whether people know that or not,
we're vibrating all the time.
We're in a vibrational
big stew pot.
So there is no out.
So the decision I'm going
to just stay out of it
is a decision to cut off,
shut off, go numb, not care.
And that energy creates
hopelessness for other people,
you see?
So you can have-- so
then what do we do?
And I talk about this.
You can have grief and
compassion at the same time.
>>LISA: Oh, you can?
>>DE ANGELIS: See,
my second chapter
is about feelings and people
not understanding emotion.
People think they
have to choose,
like in a Chinese
restaurant, column A, B, C.
I'm either angry, or
I'm going to be loving.
You can be angry and
loving at the same time.
You can say I am not
happy with what you did.
I still love you.
I can feel compassion
for everything
and then be furious
at other things.
I can feel scared
about what's happening,
and I can also hold love.
For ourselves, as
well, I can say
I am scared about something.
I'm not happy with what I did,
but I can hold love for myself.
This is such an
enlightened concept.
It's the real concept.
It's what happens as we grow
in more and more awakening,
to be able to hold a lot of
different feeling at once.
As opposed to thinking, since
I'm so upset with that person,
then I can't care anymore.
It's totally wrong.
Those emotions are all there.
Anyone who's ever had a
child knows that, right?
You can say I am furious
at what my child did.
And I'm not shutting off.
I adore you.
But this is how we need to
learn to be with everybody
and with ourselves.
>>LISA: But that relationship,
though, with a child
is different.
You unconditionally
love that child
because you're
responsible for it.
You nurture this child,
and you allow this child
to grow up in the world.
You don't do that with
some of the leaders that
are causing all this divisive.
>>DE ANGELIS: And I'm
not saying that you're
loving them specifically.
You asked me about the
grief and the cosmic grief.
A lot of people are suffering
from a sense of cosmic grief
of why is the world this way?
>>LISA: Do you think that's
creating more of that?
>>DE ANGELIS: I think
that that is a question--
I talk about the
divine discomfort.
I think every seeker
has come into the world
and one of their
first experiences
was why are things this way?
Why isn't everybody happy?
Why can't people
love each other?
I remember these
sacred questions
when I was very young,
wondering where was I?
Was I sent to the wrong planet?
How many times do people
think who are these people?
This is not the planet
I'm supposed to be on.
And the truth is, it is the
planet we're supposed to be on.
We were assigned to be on
this planet to shift it,
to help be part of
the Great Awakening
and not say I'm out of here.
We are all living
ambassadors, especially
people who are conscious, who
are watching Gaia, who are
doing something for themselves.
This is the time that we
need to step up and be
on the front lines and not go,
I just want to move to Hawaii.
I'm going to go to Costa Rica.
>>LISA: There is no
escape right now.
>>DE ANGELIS: And
there is no out.
>>LISA: Yeah, there isn't.
>>DE ANGELIS: And there's
not supposed to be.
So this is why,
now more than ever,
I always say to seekers we
need to heal more deeply,
love more fully, clear our
issues more thoroughly,
not say I did enough of it.
We need to go all the way now.
And it's one of the
reasons I wrote this book.
It's one of the
reasons I've been
trying to teach more, do more,
offer more online courses.
This is the time.
We are needed.
And it's the time we
have prepared for.
And yes, we can feel
that feeling of I
just want to recede back.
That is not our
higher self talking.
>>LISA: I was thinking
about that the other day.
Where can you go?
Where can you get away from
the wildfires, the hurricanes,
the mass shootings?
>>DE ANGELIS: You go to
the sanctuary of the heart.
>>LISA: Yes, you have to.
>>DE ANGELIS: And
in the heart, there
is enough love, enough
compassion, enough courage,
enough emotional
courage, enough strength
to be able to say how
can I bring the highest
love to this situation?
And these are a lot
of the techniques
that I teach that are
so important right now.
How do I bring love
to this situation?
How do I see this
situation with more love?
What choice am I
making right now?
Am I making a choice
for my highest?
not for my highest?
Is there a more enlightened
choice I can make?
Choice by choice, we can
navigate through every day,
every situation, et cetera.
It doesn't mean we're
not feeling things.
It doesn't mean
we're not stressed.
It doesn't mean we're
not unhappy with what's
happening in the world.
But we are choosing the
highest choice for ourself.
That highest choice will radiate
out to others, et cetera.
But the choice to not feel,
to not care, to move away,
and to hide is not an option.
It's an option,
but it should not
be an option in anyone
who considers himself,
saying all those people
are screwing up the world
and because of that,
I want to pull away.
You are now one of
those people, you see?
What are you doing
to make a difference?
You can do something.
And making a difference is
not about starting a movement,
having a TV show,
writing a book.
Choice by choice, we are all
making a difference everyday
by what we're vibrating out.
Are we contributing to the
vibration of love, compassion,
clarity?
Are we contributing to the
vibration of hate, anger, et
cetera.
We are all changing the
world every single second.
That's not just a song.
It's really true.
>>LISA: This is how
we make a choice I
want you to take a look here
at Barbara's video where
she's talking about choice
and that's what love is.
>>DE ANGELIS: When you think
of your physical heart,
you know that it's a muscle
responsible for pumping blood
through your body and
keeping you alive.
However, did you
know your true heart
is so much more than that?
It's a non-physical,
metaphysical heart.
This inner heart is the seat
of that ultimate reality.
It serves as the entry
point for the soul
from the divine,
unlimited source energy
into your physical
individuality and form.
It's the home from which all
the ripples of who you are
originate.
The spiritual heart is
the vibrational space
spoken about by mystics and
referenced in ancient writings.
It's the connecting link
between heaven and Earth
and between the
universal consciousness
and your consciousness.
It's nature.
It's pure love.
>>LISA: OK.
So what about those people,
and me, I've done this,
go to a personal
development workshop.
Three days, love fest.
Get these epiphanies.
>>DE ANGELIS: Instant high.
>>LISA: Yes.
Come back into my life, and
then one thing after the next
after the next puts me
back into my old patterns.
I get over-scheduled.
I get pulled in too
many directions,
and I'm back to where I started.
>>DE ANGELIS: I can
explain this perfectly.
This is one of the things
that I'm known for is
and I'm honored to be able
to do this in my life,
is teaching what I call
practical spirituality.
I've been doing this for 50
years now, believe it or not.
>>LISA: What?
>>DE ANGELIS: 50.
I started my spiritual
path when I was 18.
I'm going to be
68 any second now.
And so I've been doing
this for a long time.
And our idea of what
the spiritual path
should look like for most people
is kindergarten spirituality.
It's the misunderstanding.
If I just do this
and do that, I'll
get happier and
happier every day.
I'll always get
support of nature.
That's not how we learn
our soul curriculum.
We each have a social curriculum
that we need to learn.
So you're talking
about going to an event
or it could be watching a
show or taking a course,
and yes, it's designed
to raise your vibration.
It does raise your
vibration temporarily.
But practical
spirituality is the how.
How did that happen?
What did I do at that
thing that allowed
me to vibrate at my highest?
What do I need to
do when I come home?
We need techniques.
We need tools.
It's not magical thinking.
It's not like going
spiritual shopping
or taking a spiritual shower.
And that's how a lot
of people think--
I'm not saying you--
where we think, I did that.
I went there.
I did that thing.
I saw that guru.
And so didn't that do it?
You know, I did it to me.
No, it doesn't do it.
In the presence of that
person or that teacher
or that workshop, you
experience, not them,
your highest.
The idea of that is that you
say, wow, I feel peaceful.
I feel so tuned in.
I feel more compassionate.
This is my highest
self, revealing herself,
itself to me, but I don't
always live this way.
Why?
And the point of it is for
you to love that feeling,
to want that feeling, and
then to go back into your life
and make the choices
and do the things that
get you to that place
you're living it,
not just visiting it.
But what happens is we think
that something magical should
happen, and we
should feel better.
And sometimes, when
we have those things,
we go to those events or we
see a show or whatever it is,
the universe will
deliberately say, OK, now,
let's ground this.
And we will suddenly
find that we go back,
and we are challenged.
We have one thing after
another happening,
and we say, I felt great, and
then all this stuff happened,
and it got lost.
No.
All this stuff
happened to show you
how you lose your
connection with your center,
so that you can then say, whoa.
I don't like this.
What choice did I make?
What did I indulge in instead?
Look at how I went and shut off.
Look at how instead
of dealing with this,
I drank five glasses of wine
because I said I was stressed.
What if I had done
something different?
And we learn to rise up.
And one of the great
teachings I have,
and I can give to
everybody now--
when anything's happening
to you from somebody else,
something that happens that is
a disappointment, a challenge,
instead of saying, what's
happening to me because that's
what we do.
What's happening to me today?
My husband was in a bad mood.
My kid did this.
My secretary did-- the
spiritual question of awakening
is what's happening in me?
What's happening in me?
Because it's not what's
happening in them
that made them do that.
>>LISA: So do you mean
in me as a reaction
to what's happening out there?
>>DE ANGELIS: What's
happening in me?
I am shutting off
from my husband
because he didn't appreciate
me enough this morning.
I am deciding to just let
go of something that's
hard because I'm upset that
somebody didn't help me more.
What am I choosing?
What's happening in
me is the question
of spiritual responsibility
versus what's happening to me?
What's happening to me is
a question of a victim.
It's a question of anger.
It's a question of blame.
The minute you say
what's happening in me?
Guess which part of you
is asking that question?
>>LISA: The victim.
>>DE ANGELIS: No, your highest.
>>LISA: No.
In me, yeah.
>>DE ANGELIS: Your highest.
And it will call upon
your knowingness.
And your knowingness says,
well, and at first, you
might say nothing's
happening in me.
It's their fault.
But if you ask again,
what's happening in me?
I've chosen to push away.
I've chosen to feel
sorry for myself.
I've chosen to find
evidence that people
aren't there for me.
Is there a better
choice I can make?
Is there a more loving choice?
How would I bring love
to this situation?
And right then,
what's happened, we
haven't changed the situation.
We've shifted our identification
from our limited self, which
we all have to our highest.
Every day, everyone
knows we've all
had moments when we're
so high, so wonderful.
We're happy.
We're in the mountains.
We're meditating.
We're in love.
We're at a yoga retreat.
And we go I am it.
I'm enlightened.
I know it.
I'm finally somewhere.
And then we have our
lowest moments, right,
that we hope nobody is--
and then we have
everything in between.
My point is, it's not an
accident that one moment you
feel one way or the other.
We're making invisible,
silent choices.
If we can notice the
choices that we've made,
that got us there, make
different ones, which
is part of what I teach people.
We're not just deciding we'll
see how today turns out.
And I'm not talking about goals.
I'm not talking
about intentions.
I'm not talking about
positive visualizations.
>>LISA: You're talking
about accidents.
>>DE ANGELIS: I'm
talking about the choices
that we're actually--
internal choices that we're
making all the time with how we
hold things, how we experience
things, and emotional choices.
>>LISA: OK.
So we can actually
choose if there
is an accident or something
that seems totally external, out
of our circumstances, everything
that's out of our control,
you can actually say this
is life presenting me
with this challenging situation
so I can actually practice
what I have just learned.
100%, that's what you're saying?
>>DE ANGELIS: Aren't you
going to have to practice it?
>>LISA: Yes.
>>DE ANGELIS: You're going
to have to practice it.
You know if on days
when everything's fine,
nothing's happening,
everything's going smoothly
for a while, we can coast.
We don't have to
call upon anything.
So I'm not saying
that it's great
when horrible things happen.
But if we look back
and we ask ourselves,
in impossible moments, we call
upon the possible resource
that we have inside of us.
So that then we say I
have something in me.
Something in me allowed
me to get through this.
Or I brought more love to it
or I brought more compassion
or more patience to it.
But every single day,
we make decisions
about how we're going
to deal with everything,
internal decisions.
All shifting has to be
vibrational from the inside.
You can't shift on the outside.
>>LISA: Can't we just get
to a place though, Barbara,
where we could just
coast for a little while?
Is that all right?
>>DE ANGELIS: When people
say things to me like,
you know what?
I've done a lot of
personal growth work.
And maybe they've taken
one of my workshops
and someone else's, and say,
I'm taking a break for a while.
I just need to take a break.
And I always say you took a
break for so many lifetimes
and that's why you're
here right now.
We're not here to--
I mean, we all feel that way.
And so yes, we take a day.
But the truth is, the whole
planet's been taking a break.
I don't believe if anybody
is really on a conscious path
and felt drawn to that
path and felt the call
to awakening in any way,
whether it's just the last month
and you're starting
to watch Gaia,
whether it's been for 30
years or 50 years, like me,
I don't believe that we're
here to take a break.
I think we're here to
help heal what's broken
and that means what's
broken in ourselves.
Broken meaning what
is disconnected,
not what's wrong but what's
disconnected from spirit,
what's disconnected
from our love, what's
disconnected from each other?
That's what, again, all
spiritual paths talk about.
It's nice to think about it
that way, but we have to think
but how does that apply to
me, living spirituality?
And when I started
meditating, and I was 18.
And it was 1969.
And I thought all
I have to do is
meditate every day and
everything's going to be great.
The right people
will come in my life.
And it was such a silly way
of understanding things,
but it was like a little kid
thinking magical thinking.
And when I began
to look around me
in my 20s at
spiritual communities,
I realized there was,
as a psychologist,
there was a lack of
integration, a lack of balance.
And more than ever,
that's what my career
has been about to just talk
not just about the what but the
how.
How?
Because we all would love
to experience everything
like that, but the how
is really important.
There's mechanics of
spiritual transformation.
There's actual
mechanics, the same way
there are mechanics of healing
our body or anything that
are so important to understand
and to not misunderstand.
Because a lot of
people, when they're
going through a
difficult time or a time
of a lot of questioning, a
time of a lot of challenges,
say what am I doing wrong?
All my work that
I've done on myself
obviously isn't working because
x, y, or z is happening.
This is one of the worst things
that we can do to ourselves.
One of the big mistakes we
make on the spiritual path
is misunderstanding
what's happening.
>>LISA: And asking
what we're doing wrong?
>>DE ANGELIS: Instead
of understanding
why is this happening?
What is this lesson?
Why am I learning
this right now?
What am I supposed to be
calling on and thinking
that if we're going
through difficult times,
it means we have made a mistake.
I gave a lecture last--
>>LISA: It does?
It does?
>>DE ANGELIS: No, of
course it doesn't.
>>LISA: Yeah, it doesn't.
>>DE ANGELIS: But that's
what a lot of people do.
They think but if I've
been doing x, y, and z,
shouldn't everything be fine?
That's not the way it works.
We'd love it to.
The little kid in us would
like to think that's the case,
but it's not the case.
We're living in a world
with a lot of ignorance.
It's not an enlightened
planet, and our job
is to I always say, the only
goal I think everyone should
really have is today,
I'm going to live
as the most awakened,
loving person I can be.
We can make lists.
We can make to-do lists.
I'm totally into lists.
I'm very focused, et cetera.
But the one thing we
can accomplish every day
is that today, I'm going to
live as the most awakened,
loving human being I can be.
I'm going to stay awake.
I'm going to be more awake
on the way it's done.
I'm going to pay attention.
>>LISA: I love it.
>>DE ANGELIS: I'm going
to course correct,
and maybe today will be a
good day at work or not.
Maybe today will be a calm
day in my house or not,
but I can make that choice.
>>LISA: You're turning it up.
You're really making
this an urgent sense
of this choice for love.
>>DE ANGELIS: But
what's the opposite?
Today, I am not going to
live as the most awakened
conscious person I can be?
Not even going back to sleep.
What about in the middle?
Today I'm going to be kind
of conscious, you know?
Today I'm going to be
loving when I want to.
Why would we think that?
And this is what I like to do as
a very transformational teacher
is to call people to
what are you doing
if you're making that choice?
If you're saying I'm not going
to be the most loving, the most
awake.
>>LISA: Just kind of.
>>DE ANGELIS: I'm going to do it
with the people who deserve it.
This person, I'm a little
pissed off at, so I'll wait.
What choice are we making
in then moment, you know?
That's it.
>>LISA: That's true I want
you to take a look here
at Barbara talking
about her sense
of practical spirituality.
Take a look at this.
>>DE ANGELIS: Practical
spirituality--
it's one thing to sit and
think I know I'm divine,
and the world's full of angels.
But what do you do when
someone's driving you crazy,
right?
What do you do when you
leave the conference
or open your eyes from prayer
meditation and face your life?
Practical spirituality--
how do you apply it?
Otherwise, you actually
get even more frustrated,
and then it becomes
two worlds, you know?
Well, everything's fine
when my eyes are closed.
When my eyes are open,
everything's horrible.
Right?
Or you go away for
a week to a retreat.
Oh, this was heaven.
If I could only live here.
You can live there.
If you understand the inner
conditions for creating it,
you should live there but
not away from everything,
with everything.
So here's the thing--
we all have our highest self,
our most enlightened moments,
our most loving moments, right?
You all can think
of moments when
you were in your highest,
hopefully, recently.
It could be a second.
It could be compassion
with a friend.
It could be, again, in
meditation or prayer,
going to church.
It could be helping somebody.
You go this is me.
I feel so good right.
I'm in my highest.
I am a wonderful being.
I know I'm divine.
That's great.
Then we all have the
opposite, our lowest moments.
We lose it, where
we're off balance.
Where our most unattractive
human parts come out, right?
Even if no one sees
them, we feel them.
And then there's
everything in between.
On any given day, where would
you like to be on the scale?
At the highest.
So then the question
is why, why?
If I can feel it
for five minutes,
why can't I maintain it?
>>LISA: You ask a great
question at the end there.
If I can feel it for 10
minutes, why doesn't that last?
Why can't I maintain it?
And this is where I want
to get into the mechanics.
>>DE ANGELIS: That's
I been talking about.
>>LISA: Yeah.
Yeah, the mechanics of this--
what are some of the
mechanics of how to maintain
that space, Barbara?
I want to know what are some of
the practical mechanics on how
to maintain it.
>>DE ANGELIS: The first thing
is to notice when we're not
maintaining it because this
is where a lot of people
glaze over.
We don't have
enough consciousness
about what we're doing,
why we're doing it,
how we're feeling.
So the things I said
before, for instance,
about noticing what choice
am I making right now.
We think we're making
choices like what
we're going to eat that day.
We're going to finish
this thing or not.
Who do I call?
But the emotional and
consciousness choices
we're making are really
determining our day.
So why can't I
maintain it goes back
to that idea of I went to
this great meditation retreat
and I came back, and
why can't I maintain it?
And you see, that's a complaint
when most people say it.
Why can't I maintain it?
Why isn't it happening?
Why can't I?
Asking it as a real question--
why can't I maintain it?
Let me think about why.
What's underneath this?
What am I doing?
What do I not do?
How am I allowing myself
to slide into this or that?
What is my secret rulebook?
Well, I'll act enlightened
and loving, et cetera,
unless these things happen,
and then I'm allowed
to be pissed off, et cetera.
There's all kinds of stuff
that goes on inside of people,
and there's techniques that
we can use and should use.
And the simplest thing
is that what choice
am I making right now?
Whenever we're feeling
upset, we're irritated,
we're depressed-- what
choice am I making?
Where does it come from?
To actually
understand that we're
making so many choices
intellectually,
mentally, spiritually,
and emotionally every day.
So the reason we
can't maintain it
is not that we
can't maintain it.
It's that we don't maintain it.
>>LISA: We choose
not to maintain it,
is what you're saying.
>>DE ANGELIS: And there's tons
of old emotional programming,
emotional baggage that, to me,
it's essential as a human being
to learn about, find somebody
who can help you unravel those
things because our brain is--
many of us have
software in our brain
that is so outdated
that it is back to
from when we were five
years old, 10 years old.
That's how we got
wired at the time.
I talk a lot about this
in "The Choice for Love."
And we're literally having
emotional flashbacks
constantly.
Somebody doesn't
particularly get
that excited about
something we said,
we're not even in present time.
Something in our
brain goes right back.
Unconsciously,
we're flashing back
to our mother, our
father, our ex-husband,
and then we suddenly
get a little sarcastic
with that person.
The entire event happens.
We don't even realize
it just went on.
We were literally
hallucinating backwards.
So all this stuff
is so important.
I have a lot of really
great techniques
to help people figure
out where we're
stuck in the emotional
past, and how it's actually
affecting everything.
I always say we see the world
through the eyes of our issues.
We think we're seeing clearly,
but we're not seeing clearly.
We're seeing through
our programming.
And you wouldn't
operate your computer
and not upgrade it or
update the software.
And a lot of us just
haven't even thought of it.
That's just the way I am.
>>LISA: Our updates usually
make everything better.
This is true.
>>DE ANGELIS: We need to update
our emotional and intellectual
and mental software.
It's not that hard to do.
I do it for people all the time.
And when we do, we look back
and we just are in shock.
I can't believe I walked
around telling myself
that story about that thing.
And it was totally not
what was happening.
>>LISA: When you shift
to a different dimension.
Let me ask you a question
about the chapter
in the book about gateways
for impossible times.
You talk about--
first of all, why
do you call it a gateway
for impossible times?
What does that mean?
And it's a chapter in the book.
>>DE ANGELIS: I think it's
in impossible journeys, yes,
which everyone has had.
People are having them
right now as they watch.
Impossible times are the
times that we're thinking
why did this happen to me?
I can't deal with this.
I want it to just go away.
>>LISA: I want it to stop.
>>DE ANGELIS: I use the word--
you just said it.
I want it to stop.
There is a shift
that's so important,
and it's not intuitive, when
we are battling something.
When we're saying I hate this.
I want it to go away.
I hate that I'm doing this.
I hate that this is happening.
Every day we say
that to ourselves we
are going to stay stuck in
it because it is happening.
But there are, and I call
them gateways, doorways, ways
of moving into it that will
shift us, that will open us,
that will begin to heal
us, that will allow us
to access parts of us
that we don't know about,
that will call in different
kinds of energies.
But we feel like we just
want to smash whatever it is.
>>LISA: Yes, I have a friend--
I'm just recalling a friend
going through cancer.
And she just wants
it to be done.
She wants to be over it.
Every day is the chemo.
Every day is the radiation.
She can't just
smash through that.
But you're saying that
she can find a gateway
and go into it from a
different perspective?
>>DE ANGELIS: It's the only
way to move through things
because battling
something says I hate you.
I want you to be gone.
And you can want
something to be over.
You can want to get
through a difficult time.
You have to actually
navigate your way through it.
You have to learn to be able to
have compassion for yourself,
compassion for other things.
So there is a
mechanics of navigating
through difficult things.
I have a great
technique in the book
that I've used in my
past in difficult times.
Because one of the
things we do when we're
going through difficult
times is it feels like it's
going to last forever, right?
We're so caught up in that.
So the first question in the
four questions of healing
I have is, can I do
this for one more day?
>>LISA: One more day.
>>DE ANGELIS: Can I do
this for one more day?
If it's really intense, can
I do this for one more hour?
Can I feel the pain of my
husband leaving for one more
hour?
Can I feel my
questioning about what's
going to happen
to me financially,
can I just deal with
it for one more hour?
What could make this hour
easier or more difficult?
That's another question.
It's easier, maybe,
if I call somebody.
It's easier if I meditate.
It's easier-- what could
make it more difficult?
And there's several
other questions
I don't remember right
now, but they can help us
when we feel that
we just don't want
to even be present in things.
Being present in
things can pull forth
what I call soul
accomplishments.
Soul accomplishments are
not things on the outside.
They're not things we're
trying to control, manage,
have mastery over.
They're things that
happen on the inside,
and they're really the
great accomplishments
that stay with us.
They're the only things
that really stay with us.
So a soul
accomplishment could be
I didn't shut off even when
my father was having surgery.
somebody really hurt me,
and I felt the grief.
And I allowed it
to open my heart.
Soul accomplishments
are what really
carves us, what
allows us to blossom,
what allows us to ground
ourselves in our awakening.
Everyone's having a
soul accomplishment
right now because they're
watching the show.
>>LISA: They're
You said you wrote these down,
and you put them everywhere,
on your dashboard, on
your mirror, places
where when you get
stuck, you can just
be reminded by these
little external influences.
>>DE ANGELIS: And
it's the same thing
with the questions
that I talk about,
the choice for love questions.
What's happening in me?
What am I choosing this moment?
How can I bring more
love to this situation?
Is there more?
It's so great to write
these things down,
to have them there, to have
cheat sheets, et cetera.
I'm very big on techniques.
You said something very
kind to me before about
how I have things bold
and in boxes in the book.
>>LISA: I love it.
I love it.
>>DE ANGELIS: It's
very important.
I'm very grounded.
I'm a very
inspirational teacher,
but I'm really practical
and really grounded.
So we need to give ammunition
to our highest self
to have conversation with that
other part of us and not just
say it's all going to work out.
It's all going to work out
is a useless thing to say.
We need to work it out in
this moment, the next moment,
and the next moment.
And step by step,
we stay more awake.
We stay more in love.
>>LISA: I usually
highlight books
and then I fold the pages
and I highlight and so forth.
And you bolded them for me.
They're really big.
And it's great because the
reading is growth stimulating.
I read a couple of sentences,
and I had to process them.
But then you bolded
the ones that I--
I loved it.
>>DE ANGELIS: My books are--
they're real pilgrimages.
They're vibrational journeys.
It's a very intentional thing.
Thank you so much
for saying that.
They are designed to
do something to people.
I have there's amazing stories
that I hear all the time
from people about just having
the book, opening to somewhere.
They're invitations
to your own vibration
to reveal itself to your
highest self, to reveal it.
So we all have that.
That is who we are.
Everything else is
just forgetfulness.
>>LISA: You wrote
something that I loved.
And it said, we have to have
compassion for our own karma.
That sucks.
>>DE ANGELIS: But as I say,
we each have soul curriculum.
I talk a lot about what
our school curriculum is.
We're all in soul classes.
It could be Abandonment 101,
Where Has Everybody Gone?
It could be, You're God.
I'm not God.
How to Stop
Controlling Everybody.
I have a whole list of them.
They're very funny.
But the truth is, we all are
taking certain karmic courses.
We take them again and
again at the higher levels.
If anyone watching
thinks about this,
some of the same things
you've had to deal with maybe
when you were younger,
you're dealing
with it now but in a
more sophisticated way,
in a higher way.
We each have certain things
that we're here to learn.
Knowing what they
are, recognizing
those, which I help
people figure out,
is so important because then
when it happens, you don't go,
I can't believe it.
You go, yeah, class number four.
This is it.
It's happening with this
girlfriend right now.
Of course, this is happening.
Of course, mistrust.
Of course, it's happening.
What have I learned?
How do I pull on those lessons?
How do I be at my highest?
It shifts everything.
So that's what I mean.
We all have karma.
We have to have
compassion for it.
It's not always fun.
But when we stop thinking
something's wrong with us,
it's the same thing, because
we have things happening to us.
Then we can move through our
curriculum with a lot of love,
a lot of--
but what's the choice?
The choice, again, it's
to battle who we are.
It's to battle reality,
and that's the unreal.
I always talk about our
relationship to the real.
We all have impossible times.
But even in there, there
are so many moments
where we need to look for
evidence of grace and evidence
of love and not intellectually.
And I'm not talking
about saying I know.
I'm so grateful.
Gratitude is not a list.
It's not an affirmation.
It needs to be an
inner experience that
is so full inside your heart
that you're letting something
pierce your heart.
You're feeling it.
You're feeling that thing
that happened to you.
The heart is the
gateway to awakening,
and emotions are not
there to be managed.
They're text messages
from her heart.
We need to not delete them.
We need to follow them and
say where is this coming from?
What is it supposed to teach me?
When we understand that
it's not our intellect
that's going to
get us enlightened.
It's fully feeling and that
everything we need to learn
will rise up in the heart.
This has been my path.
It's how I have taken people
in very short periods of time
into amazing, amazing healing.
The heart, it's the hub
of all sacred places.
The great Indian sage
Bhagwan Nityananda
said, "the heart is the
hub of all sacred places.
Go there and roam."
But we don't want to go
there because it's complex.
So I invite everyone
to go there.
So much is there.
And not just the idea you
should go to your heart.
I mean, actually learn how
to access it within minutes.
Figure out what's happening.
Bring that out into the world.
This is how we become
the people we want to be.
>>LISA: This is a
part of your journey,
as well as sharing it with the
world as a spiritual teacher.
But you've taken people on
beautiful pilgrimages as well.
I have a couple of pictures
here with you meeting the Dalai
Lama.
And what was that
experience like?
>>DE ANGELIS: I was invited
to a big conference in Canada
with a lot of very
well-known people.
I'm sure you've had a
lot of them on the show,
like including Sir Richard
Branson, and blah, blah, blah.
And the Dalai Lama
was going to be there.
And the person putting
on the conference
did not know me well.
He invited me through
somebody else.
And I heard that
there was going to be
a private audience of a lot of
the speakers and the Dalai Lama
and not me and not
a few other people.
And I really had
to contemplate it
because I've been a
spiritual seeker for--
a serious seeker
for a long time.
I've had two spiritual masters.
And I felt sad,
but I thought, I'm
going to receive the
darshan, the light,
the radiance of this being.
I feel grateful to
be in his presence.
So I heard from all
these other people,
they were trying to muscle
in when the reception was.
And the day of the
reception, the Dalai Lama
was giving his presentation.
I had already given mine.
And I was there
in this big crowd
and certain people had kind
of pushed to the front row.
And I was back a
few rows because I
wasn't at the reception group.
And the Dalai Lama
finished, and I sat there.
I wore something
similar to this.
And I just sat all
day, just being
there to receive his grace.
He finished his talk.
He moved down off the
stage, and all of a sudden,
he parted the crowd, walked
through the crowd to me.
And I was standing
there, and I could
feel that my love
and my reverence
had been such a beacon.
And all those people who were
wanting to go to the reception
were staring.
And he came up, and he said some
really beautiful things to me.
And he blessed me, and
it was very powerful.
And I felt so humbled.
I had to go lie down for hours.
And then I heard that they
canceled the reception.
>>LISA: Oh, my goodness,
>>DE ANGELIS: And so it
wasn't because of me.
But it was a great thing
about I thought how--
I didn't go saying
what can I get?
I went thinking,
what can I give him?
How can I be there and just
receive and give so much love?
And this is such a great
role model for all of us.
To any situation--
what can I give?
What can I give today?
And not what am I going to get?
What am I going to get?
The whole world is so
entrenched in what am I getting,
and it has created
such evil and darkness.
What can I give?
Even if it's the
simplest situation.
Even if it's to somebody
checking you out at the grocery
store.
What can I give pulls
you into your highest.
It allows you to live
your truest purpose, which
is to create a vibration
of love that day.
>>LISA: That's so interesting
because this whole community
and society is around buy one,
get one, and what can you get?
And it's scarcity.
You're not going to
have enough, and there's
survival attached to that.
And you're coming from a
completely different place,
which leads to simplicity.
So this other picture,
you were going--
is this a journey that
you took people on?
Is it India?
>>DE ANGELIS: No.
This is a pilgrimage
that I took to India.
India has been my
spiritual home for decades
before I even went there.
I've only been
there several times.
But I was in India and going
to just all the temples
and experiencing
incredible darshan
of the energy and the vibration
of a lot of the teachings
that started me out on my path.
And the beautiful level of
the vibration of the sacred,
even with people who are
living with so little
and have tremendous joy and
happiness in their heart.
And so I love India.
I would go every
year if I could.
My house looks like India.
Yeah, so people walk
in, and they go,
this is more Indian than
my house, and I'm Indian.
So that's my spiritual roots.
>>LISA: That's your
spiritual roots.
>>DE ANGELIS: And when
I met the Dalai Lama--
I wasn't going to say this,
but when he came over,
and he put a scarf around me.
And he looked at me,
and he said, India.
And he didn't mean am I
Indian, which I can look.
He meant, India, past life?
And I said yes.
And he said yes.
It was really powerful.
>>LISA: So how validating.
>>DE ANGELIS: It was amazing.
He just said India.
>>LISA: Wow.
Yes.
There's some beautiful
pictures here of you in India,
and your dressed as--
>>DE ANGELIS: I feel completely
comfortable as an Indian.
No if I could-- that's
how I feel comfortable.
From the second I first put
on a sari in life or anything,
The second I met my
first spiritual teacher,
everything was so normal to me.
Everything Indian was more
normal than anything else.
So it's in my what
everyone believes in,
but it's certainly
in my spiritual DNA.
>>LISA: That makes
a beautiful sense,
and for anyone else
who is called that way,
and you found the validation.
That's great.
>>DE ANGELIS: Except
you know what?
I always tell people,
briefly, people
think of going on a
pilgrimage to India or Peru.
The real pilgrimage is
always into the heart.
The real pilgrimage we
can experience ourselves.
We can take a two-minute
pilgrimage by closing our eyes
or having a beautiful photo
and asking for blessings
or offering blessings.
That's what we can
do, no matter what.
We don't have to have it
glamorous and dramatic
on the outside.
Whenever we're in love,
we are at the center
of all sacred places.
>>LISA: Wow.
That's true.
You have a beautiful meditation.
And I'm going to ask our
audience to just wherever you
are, just relax, just
sit back, and receive
this beautiful meditation
for peace and for love.
Just close your eyes and enjoy.
>>DE ANGELIS: This is
Dr. Barbara DeAngelis.
I'd like to offer you
my soul shifts blessing
prayer for the planet.
This blessing prayer is
described in my book,
"Soul Shifts," and it's
a powerful practice
you can offer to the world
and all who inhabit it.
When you offer
this blessing, you
will shift your identification
into your highest
and lift yourself up to your
most elevated vibration.
Now, more than ever, Our
world needs this blessing.
You may want to close your eyes
and take a few deep breaths
and allow the space around
your heart to be very open.
Visualize our planet.
Imagine yourself
embracing it with love.
I offer my blessings to
the planet Earth, my home
while I am in this body.
May grace now shower upon the
world and restore it to peace.
May all who suffer now
be comforted and healed.
May all who are oppressed now
be liberated and their dignity
redeemed.
May all who are lost
in forgetfulness
now awaken from the great sleep
and return to remembrance.
May all beings now live
together in perfect harmony.
May all souls now align
with their highest.
May all souls now find
their way back to love,
and may that love
be all that is.
May that one perfect light
now triumph over all darkness,
in all people, and all
places, seen and unseen.
And may that one perfect
light prevail for all time.
May there be peace.
>>LISA: May there be peace.
I love that you said that.
In all that you
do, Barbara, in all
of the years that
you've been teaching
and the books and the
incredible experiences,
what is your biggest why?
What gets you up every day
to do this again and again?
>>DE ANGELIS: We talked
about those questions
before, why is this
happening to me?
Why did this person
do this or that?
My original why was why
is the world like this?
But I actually, whenever I
ask a why about anything,
I always go to a how.
How?
Why is the world this way?
Why am I feeling--
I always go to how.
How can I help more?
How can I serve more?
I think the only
other why would be
why can't I live for
hundreds of years right now?
Because I have so
much more to teach.
I'm kind of at the prime
of my wisdom and my love.
I want to just live
a long, long time
so I can continue to fulfill
my own spiritual contract
and help uplift the planet.
So I'm just going
to go with the how.
How can I do that?
How can I keep serving?
How can I feel at
peace in my own heart
that I've given enough,
loved enough, offered enough
in my life?
So my whole goal in
life now is to help
people rise to their highest.
Then there's more
people to play with
and the we becomes
joyful and the
we becomes what my vision
and I think your vision,
Gaia's vision is what
the world is meant to be.
>>LISA: Yes, and it is also a
sense of urgency around this.
We have to make this
choice for love in order
to help this planet right now.
>>DE ANGELIS: Now, more than
ever, make the choice for love.
Figure out what that is.
Do whatever you can.
Follow the path.
Read.
Learn.
>>LISA: Thank you.
>>DE ANGELIS: The universe
is counting on each of us.
>>LISA: Very, very
important message.
And the universe
is counting on you.
So thank you so much for being
here and for watching Gaia TV.
If you'd like to watch more
inspirational interviews,
you can go to
"Inspirations" on gaia.com.
I'm Lisa Garr, and
until next time,
I invite you to stay aware.